Q.1 What is npm?
Ans: Node Package Manager(NPM) is the world's largest software registry which have become center of Javascript code sharing,
     with more than one million packages.
It is is the default package manager for JavaScript's runtime Node.js.
Developers from different places use npm to share and borrow packages.

Q.2 What is package?
Ans: The term "package" is used to describe code that's been made publicly available. A package can contain a single file or many files of code.

Q.3 What is Node.js?
Ans:1) Node.js is an open source server environment. Node JS was created by Ryan Dahl
2) It runs on various platforms (Windows, Linux, Unix, Mac OS X, etc.)
3) It uses JavaScript on the server.
4) It uses asynchronous programming.
5) It eliminates the waiting, and simply continues with the next request.
6) It runs single-threaded, non-blocking, asynchronous programming, which is very memory efficient.

NOTE: Server environment => so before node Javascript was only able to run on our OS using browsers but node provides us to use JS on server or on our OS directly.

Q.4 Whether Node.js is single threaded or multi threaded?
Ans: Node is single threaded but it behaves as multithreaded as well depending on the process.
     Node has library called as libuv built with c++ which is multithreaded.

Q.5 What Can Node.js Do?
Ans:1) Node.js can generate dynamic page content.
2) It can create, open, read, write, delete, and close files on the server.
3) It can collect form data.
4) It can add, delete, modify data in your database

Q.6 What is Server?
Ans: A server is a computer program or device that provides a service to another computer program and its user, also known as the client.

Q.7 What is port?
Ans: A port number is the logical address of each application or process that uses a network or the Internet to communicate.
     A port number uniquely identifies a network-based application on a computer. 65,535 port numbers

Q.8 What is differennce between package.json and package.lock.json?
Ans: 1) package.json => It contains basic information about the project.It is mandatory for every project.
                        It contains information such as name, description, author, script, and dependencies.
     2) package.lock.json => It allows future devs to install the same dependencies in the project.
                             It contains the name, dependencies, and locked version of the project.

Q.9 What is Express?
Ans: Express is web application framework built on top of Node.js that helps us in managing servers and routes.
     Express was created to make APIs and web applications with ease.
     It saves a lot of coding time almost by half and still makes web and mobile applications are efficient.
    FEATURES:
        1) Fast Server-Side Development
            => Express.js provides many commonly used features of Node.js in the form of functions that can be readily
               used anywhere in the program.
            => This removes the need to code for several hours and thus saves time.
        2) Middleware
            => Middleware is a part of the program that has access to the database, client request, an the other middlewares.
        3) Routing
            => ExpressJS prvoides a highly advanced routing mechanism which helps to preserve the state of webpage with the help of their URLs.
        4) Templating
            => ExpressJS provides templating engines that allow the developers to build dynamic content on the web pages
               by building HTML templates on the server-side.
        5) Debugging
            => ExpressJS makes debugging easier by providing a debugging mechanism that has the ability to pinpoint the exact part
               of the web application which has bugs.

Q.10 What are the modules in Node.js?
Ans: A set of functions you want to include in your application.
     We can consider modules to be the same as JavaScript libraries.
     To include a module, use the require() function with the name of the module.
     http, path, os these are some of the core node modules.
     1) http: It helps us with launching a server, also with other tasks like sending requests because a node app
              could also send a request to another server.
     2) path: This module helps us with constructing paths to file on a file system that work on any operating system
              because windows and mac and linux use different path formats.
     3) OS: This module helps us with operating system, relevant information and so on.

Q.11 What is the purpose of the module .Exports?
Ans: 1) The main purpose of module.exports is to achieve modular programming.
        Modular programming refers to separating the functionality of a program into independent, interchangeable modules,
        such that each contains everything necessary to execute only one aspect of the desired functionality.
     2) Using module.exports we can separate business logic from other modules.
     3) By Using it becomes easy to maintain and manage the code base in different modules.

Q.12 Difference between default export and named export.
Ans:  => Default export is when we want to export single value from the file.
         During the import, the name of the value can be different from the exported one.
      => Named export is when we want to export multiple values from the file.
         During the import, it will be possible to use the same name to refer to the exported value.

Q.13 How do you import any module in Node.js?
Ans: Node.js uses ES5 syntax of importing i.e. it uses require() function in which we specify relative path of file for local modules
     while for third-party modules we specify their name.
     and we store it in a variable for default export while use destructuring for multiple exports.


Q.14 What are the different types of HTTP requests?
Ans: HTTP Request Methods --> GET, POST, PUT, PATCH, DELETE
    1) GET => The GET method requests a representation of the specified resource which we want to retrieve.
    2) POST => A POST request is used to send data to the server, for example, customer information, file upload, etc. using HTML forms.
    3) DELETE => The DELETE method deletes the specified resource.
    4) PUT => Replaces all the current representations of the target resource with the uploaded content.
    5) PATCH => The PATCH method applies partial modifications to a resource.

Q.15 Explain the concept of middleware in Node.js.
Ans: Middleware functions are functions that have access to the request object (req), the response object (res),
     and the next middleware function in the application’s request-response cycle.
     Middleware functions can perform the following tasks:
        --> Execute any code.
        --> Make changes to the request and the response objects.
        --> End the request-response cycle.
        --> Call the next middleware in the stack.
     Types of Middleware:
        --> app level middleware (app.use) in server.js
        --> routes level middleware(router.use) in routes file
        --> route level middleware (as argument in  between req ans res)
        --> Built in middleware (express.static,express.json,express.urlencoded)
        --> Thirdparty middleware (cors)

Q.16 Explain CORS.
Ans: --> Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) is a mechanism which enables to share data or resources
     between two different origins (different IPs, different PORTS or both).
     --> As by default http does not allow this so we need to install cors package to communicate
     between our frontend and backend apps running on different ports or domain.

Q.17 Difference between HTTP and HTTPS
Ans: HTTP is protocol which is used to communicate between client and servers over the web.
     HTTPS was introduced so that a secure session is setup first between Server and Client
     https = http + cryptographic protocols.
     Differences between HTTP and HTTPS:
     --> HTTP uses port number 80 for communication and HTTPS uses 443
     --> HTTP is considered to be unsecure and HTTPS is secure
     --> In HTTP, Encryption is absent and Encryption is present in HTTPS
     --> HTTP does not require any certificates and HTTPS needs SSL Certificates
     SSL CERTIFICATE: An SSL certificate is a digital certificate that authenticates a website's identity
                      and enables an encrypted connection.
                      SSL stands for Secure Sockets Layer, a security protocol that creates an encrypted link
                      between a web server and a web browser.

Q.18 Explain min 5 status codes gets used in Backend development.
Ans: HTTP response status codes indicate whether a specific HTTP request has been successfully completed.
     1) 200 OK --> The request succeeded. The result meaning of "success" depends on the HTTP methods.
     2) 201 Created --> The request succeeded, and a new resource was created as a result.
                        This is typically the response sent after POST requests.
     3) 400 Bad Request --> The server cannot or will not process the request due to something that is perceived to be a client error
                            (e.g., malformed request syntax, invalid request message framing, or deceptive request routing).
     4) 401 Unauthorized --> That is, the client must authenticate itself to get the requested response.
     5) 403 Forbidden --> The client does not have access rights to the content; that is, it is unauthorized, so the server is refusing
                          to give the requested resource. Unlike 401 Unauthorized, the client's identity is known to the server.
     6) 404 Not Found --> The server can not find the requested resource. In the browser, this means the URL is not recognized.
     7) 405 Method Not Allowed --> The request method is known by the server but is not supported by the target resource.
     8) 500 Internal Server Error --> The server has encountered a situation it does not know how to handle. (crashed)

Q.19 What are Query Params and URL Params?
Ans: URL parameters : It is an individual value, means single value will be coming in the url like sending productID.
                      We can set URL parameter using colon( : ) followed by paramterName.
                      We can access URL parameter using req.params.parameterName
     Query Parameters: In this case values comes in key value pair. It comes with syntax like “ ? Key = value “.
                       It can be passed in cases like sending student name.
                       We can access Query Parameter using req.query.keyName

Q.20 What is Authorization and Authentication?
Ans: Authorization : When we are talking about authorization then we check that the user who has logged is having access
                     for this specific data or not. For example, an Uber driver can not book the cab from the same account
                     with which he has logged in Uber application as driver.
     Authentication : When we are talking about authentication then we say that if a person is providing his credential
                      we will be checking if his credentials are correct or not or if he is already an existing user or not.

Q.21 What is Template Engines?
Ans:

Q.22 What are JWT Tokens?
Ans: --> To achieve authentication in the APIs, we use JWT tokens.
     --> They stand for JSON Web Tokens.
     --> When any user logs-in by giving its username and password, then we will receive the username and password
         in the request body of the API.
     --> Then using username and password we will create one token and assign it to the user.
     --> Then whenever this user will be calling any API, then this token will be passed from front-end application,
         then from backend application we will verify this token is valid or not.
     --> This is how we can achieve authentication in the APIs using JWT tokens.



